[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: I'm
your host Emery Smith.
I have been involved with
many undisclosed government
projects.
Today, Randy
Veitenheimer joins me
to talk about remote viewing.
Randy, thanks for joining
us on the show today.
>>RANDY VEITENHEIMER:
Good to see you again.
>>SMITH: Randy, tell us
about the Tibetan way
versus remote viewing
of Russell Targ.
>VEITENHEIMER:
The easiest way, I
guess, to explain it would be
one is a process of technique
and one is a process of
expansion or evolution.
Now, I'll rephrase
that a different way.
One would be an
exoteric protocol,
and the other would be
an esoteric outcome.
And they're different.
So Russell Targ was
Stanford Research Institute,
at the instigation
of the government,
came up with a program to teach
people to do remote viewing.
And the whole process required
scientific validation.
So they put constraints on it.
They put technique involved.
And the whole time
they looked for people
that had some ability.
That's esoteric ability.
That's psychic--
they hate that word.
I do too.
But some form of
intuitive capacity.
>>SMITH: Right.
Like testing people.
>VEITENHEIMER: Yes.
And the thing about that is like
people that are intellectual
generally have constraints
of their ability
to develop an
internal landscape.
And that internal
landscape is something
that is sort of unique as an
outcome of doing meditation
and techniques that were
developed in Tibet and India
over the years.
So when you look
at it that way, it
becomes absolutely the
province of the practitioner.
It's not about the technique.
The difference is SRI
techniques and later
Shealy in Missouri and
some guys up in Oregon.
I mean, there's people
all over that teach this.
But they're
basically telling you
that you're capable of
doing it, but you don't
have the requisite stance.
You haven't developed
this internal ability
to be able to see things.
Now, that's also a language that
the Native American sue also,
the ability to see.
So one of the things about
the program that Russell Targ
developed was that it evolved.
And that evolution
later led Russell
to write a very small book.
And in it he came to realize the
validity of the esoteric method
versus the technical method
that he had developed
and had quite a long
conversation about that.
Because what happens is like
in meditative type practices
or some of the practices
in the esoteric and Tibet
and places like that, remote
viewing is not remote viewing.
It's the ability to
focus your consciousness
or to realize your
consciousness exists everywhere
in the universe.
And so it's literally
just turning your head
would be a physical action,
but this is turning your mind.
Not tuning, but just
turning your mind
to a specific time or
a specific location.
And so that's an
emergent ability.
It comes out from
doing those exercises.
And, of course, some people
take longer than others.
But the technical aspects of it,
if you go the technical method,
can be learned
over several months
or a course of a couple of
years with some of these people.
The esoteric method
is more deep.
It may require decades to
where you come to that position
to where you can place
your mind on something,
or some place or some time.
And we call that an
internal landscape.
The landscape is
like the TV screen
is viewing exactly what's there,
not what you're supplying.
The biggest problem is
the human propensity
to give meaning to things even
if there's no meaning there
or no meaning to be given.
So that's the basic differences.
And it's a valuable tool.
I think everybody should have
some sense of where they're at,
where they're going,
and the future.
If that's remote viewing,
then I'm all for it.
>>SMITH: You have to
have just one thing,
and that's a
completely blank mind,
and know that you're on a
mission to describe something
that or go somewhere and
find out something, or go
be someone.
>VEITENHEIMER: That's true.
The interesting thing
about it is the scientific,
the intellect is incapable of
translating certain things.
Take love, for instance.
There's no scientific
analysis of love.
I don't care what it is.
And yet we have a
knowingness of it.
And there becomes the
divide between the intellect
and knowingness.
Knowingness is a higher
form of intellect.
And one of the things that
happens in meditation, or it
comes through like
the ability to see--
that's what we'll call it--
is that it's strictly neutral.
So neutrality does
become the primary tool
to be able to do these things.
>>SMITH: What are we separating
when we think this way?
>VEITENHEIMER:
Classical remote viewing
is a matter of technique.
And because of that, it's
an abstraction of reality.
And as an abstraction
of reality,
it is subject to interpretation.
And so that's what you find
in remote viewing sessions
is that they do them and then
they try to interpret them.
And to me, that's kind of
like astrology or something.
But the basic techniques
is pretty interesting.
I was in the Hotel
Santa Fe in New Mexico
one day with Russell Targ.
And I'm sitting in
the lobby with him.
And the ego is a very
entertaining thing.
I said that basically
I'm better than you.
And this is a
conversation we've had
about lasers and other
things throughout the years.
And one of my said, well,
I'm better than you.
And he goes, oh, yeah?
Well, what's in my pocket.
And here we go with the
box theory and all that.
So I'm sitting there and
I go, well, it's round.
It's about 3 inches in
diameter, about 1/2 inch thick.
It's black.
Like I'm doing it
the way he does it.
And so he just looks at me and
he goes, OK, what does it do?
And I go, well, you
lift it to your mouth.
And I said I don't know why,
but that's what its function is.
And he pulled out a collapsible
cup that like the Boy
Scouts have.
>>SMITH: Right,
I remember those.
>VEITENHEIMER: And he
goes, you're pretty good.
So there you go,
less validation.
And he was giving a lecture
on basics of remote viewing.
And he goes, there's
a person at the back
that's actually pretty good
that didn't study my techniques.
And so again, I come
out there feeling
pretty good about
myself, you know,
because I didn't
learn his techniques.
They were all evolutionary
through the process
of meditation and martial arts.
And the thing about some of
the esoteric martial arts
that are not taught openly
is this ability to know,
this ability to see, and to
employ it in everyday actions.
And I think it's a
residual in most humans.
But it's definitely
something that
would be worth cultivating,
because you would have
as an outcome less of a tendency
to hurt yourself or hurt
others.
So it has purpose other than
trying to see what's around
the corner or things like that.
>>SMITH: Because you're
everywhere all the time.
And when people grasp that
part of your existence
with the universe, I think that
would be an interesting thing
to maybe you could help explain.
>VEITENHEIMER: So I
think that language
of the self, when you
do deep meditations,
different practices,
you're consolidating
the entire concept of the self
into a more concise, a more
condensed space.
And once you do that,
then the expansion of that
includes everything.
I know it's kind of rough.
But if you think about people
live in a very diffuse sense
of the self.
That's easiest way to put it.
They're not 100% themselves.
They're kind of like
all over the place.
But they're not all over the
place with their whole self.
When you do meditative
techniques and kind of like get
back to yourself-- that's
maybe a good language--
then you can take that self and
place it anywhere in the field
or in your own consciousness
or somebody else's.
And that's why once
you get to that point,
all information is
available to you.
And that's why it
becomes really fast.
It's really fun because
you're not abstracting.
You're not interpreting.
You're just relating the truth.
>>SMITH: Right.
So what reality would that be?
How would you explain 0 and 1?
>VEITENHEIMER: Well, I came
up with a way to do that.
It's a book I'm
writing and have been
writing for a year
or two called "Theory
of Approximate Reality."
>>SMITH: Oh, fantastic.
>VEITENHEIMER: Yeah, and
proximity means how close.
So if you think
about it, you exist
in a world that has immediacy.
It has experience--
I mean, it has existence.
And that world is
the scientific world.
And I call that
number one reality.
It's the chair
you're sitting on.
It's the house you inhabit
or the car you're driving,
anything else.
But there's another side to it.
And that side is zero reality.
And zero reality is
everything you can't touch,
but it's experiential.
And that's where I think science
doesn't cross the divide,
because 0 and 1 become a
way that we can interpret
our entire existence,
everything, not
only in existence, but in
experience, so 0 and 1.
Zero reality is your
imagination, your dreams,
day dreaming.
When you say things like,
oh, I was daydreaming
or I had a dream,
you weren't here.
You were not in
number one reality.
You were somewhere else.
Everybody has that experience.
And then right in between
those two is another area.
And that's the
area of neutrality
and the ability to be here
or the ability to be there.
>>SMITH: And be aware of that.
>VEITENHEIMER: Yes.
And take your awareness with it.
So the more aware you are,
the more you are yourself,
then automatically
the more ability
you would have to be empathetic
or sympathetic with a person
and a relationship.
But also, now we apply
it to objects or places
in the universe.
So everywhere in the
universe is available to you,
but only if you can
consolidate yourself
to a point of consciousness
that you can move around.
And when you move
your consciousness
and place it on a different
space, a different time,
that information's
immediately available.
There is no processing involved.
And that's another mark
of SRI's techniques
because there's a processing.
And as humans, we don't
process certain things.
We just know them.
So knowingness becomes
true remote viewing.
>>SMITH: This is why they're
so fascinated about this.
Going back in history
with remote viewing,
I mean, why did the government
put so much money into this?
>VEITENHEIMER: There's several
different streams or avenues
that that information
became relevant.
And one of them is
like out of India.
I think there was
a lady that went
and studied Tibetan priests
and stuff in the '30s.
And, of course, she
wrote a small book.
And I can't remember
her name right now.
But when the book
came out, of course,
everybody disbelieved it.
The people who
disbelieved it are
the people that couldn't do it.
So then you have later, one
of my teachers was in India.
And his story was
that the Russians
had decided to
kidnap him because
of his abilities in
this area and not only
that, his ability to teach it.
And that was pretty
primary source
of how I learned some of this.
And then a secondary thing was
all Native American medicine
man, medicine women, shamans,
they all have this ability.
It's just organic to, or
nature, we would call it.
And during the late
1890s, about 1910,
it has been alluded to that
the US government maintained
or instigated a practice or
policy of trying to eliminate
as many as these people
as possible because
of their ability to
know these things.
I loved my grandmother.
She was able-- she is what I
call the last cloud reader.
She could look at the clouds and
tell you all kinds of things.
And, of course, the
answer was the clouds
were immaterial to
what she was doing.
It's the same
thing as people who
use tarot cards and all this.
Science wants to throw
all that together
and say it's esoteric and
non-material and non-relevant
and all these things.
And I tell people,
it's not the cards.
It's not the pendulum.
It's not the crystal.
It's not any of those things.
It's that person's unique
ability to be themselves
and to recognize the
difference between zero
and number one
reality and then to be
able to interact on both
sides with full consciousness.
>>SMITH: Right, right.
And how do the scientists
look at that now
utilizing all these techniques
with quantum physics?
Is there--
>VEITENHEIMER: Well,
first of all, science
doesn't like anecdotal.
It doesn't like experiential.
I can tell you I love
somebody or I did this.
It's totally experiential.
And at that point
in the intellect,
it's subject to interpretation.
How about, oh, OK,
you love somebody?
Or, oh, you had a good time
or you had this experience.
And then let's go into a
full scientific protocol.
There's no way.
There's no way you can
validate experience.
And that's the same thing, you
can't validate imagination.
You can't validate dream states.
There's just a whole bunch
that science doesn't apply to.
But knowingness does.
Knowingness applies
to those things
that are beyond the intellect.
And like I said, that's
the dividing line.
And so much of
human experience is
beyond scientific validation.
And yet we tried to insist on it
through psychology, psychiatry,
pharmacy, all kinds of different
ways that they go at it.
And they're insufficient.
That's my opinion.
>>SMITH: But I think
it's very soon that
with the new technologies that
are coming out that they're
going to be able to show how
this works in a scientific way
and put it all together
where it makes sense.
>VEITENHEIMER: The ability
to discern the truth,
everybody has it.
Not many people use it.
It is something that
you can learn to do.
There's a physiological
basis for it.
They call it muscle
testing, although I
find that way too slow.
It gets into the fact that we're
interactive with the universe
at about 1/10,000
in 20th of a second.
And that's the
flicker rate I guess
you'd call to this reality.
And if you look at all
that, if you go beyond it,
now you're into some
realm of quantum realms
or sub-quantum realms or even
up to translational and other
physics that I work on.
>>SMITH: Some of these being
at the lowest realms of the,
let's just say, the door
to the next dimension,
is what I would call it.
>VEITENHEIMER: Well,
and just to continue
that, like an experiential
reality, number one reality,
there is Max Planck.
And he comes up with
a Planck's constant.
>>SMITH: Yes, of course.
>VEITENHEIMER: And once
go down to minus 36,
then you basically eliminated
all physical reality,
we'll call it, is
my interpretation.
And then those are paradigms.
We get locked into these
paradigms of Eisteinian physics
or even quantum physics.
But it's not the whole show.
One thing that goes on is
the expansion of knowledge,
expansion of awareness.
If we extended Planck's scale
from 36 down to, let's say, 80,
all that would be experiential.
There's no way that it's
like scientifically provable,
because we went beyond
that at the minus 36 mark.
But ultimately, we
might end up at being
able to explain string
theory at number 40
or explain the
transformation physics at 70
or translational physics at 76,
our life force itself at 67.7.
And those are just
reference points.
But once we have
a reference point,
now it becomes like
in remote viewing.
Hey, let's go take
a look at that
and see if there's
any information there
we can utilize,
something that we
can use to improve our
lives, because nobody's ever
defined what human
life force is,
let alone what
alien life force is.
>>SMITH: Correct.
And why is it do you
think they're still
studying remote viewing?
>VEITENHEIMER: I
explained to one physicist
I worked with, I'm a dinosaur.
And what that means is I have
some residual talent or skills
that are still present.
And there's various people
out there that do it.
We call them naturals
in martial arts.
But then there's
the idea of trying
to translate that, like say,
back to the intellectual.
And once you go beyond
into the natural talents,
science steps up and
wants to use the intellect
to try to figure it out.
The intellect is insufficient.
It creates doubt once
you go into knowingness.
Again, I was with some
physicist and he said, well,
you can't prove anything
you're talking about?
And I said, do you
love your wife?
And his wife smacks
him on the shoulder.
And she goes, I told you.
In other words like he wants to
view the world through a lens
of just the scientific.
And it's bigger than that.
It's incredibly
bigger than that.
And one of the things about
the use of machines or things
that the intellect develop
is they don't work.
There's no technique
or no machine works.
It's the person that
uses their consciousness
to be able to extend
themselves through that.
And, again, it becomes a tool.
And some people need tools.
And on the dinosaur side,
they didn't use tools.
It was all innate.
And, of course, their
survival rate was greater,
I think, for those with innate
consciousness and abilities
than those who just strictly
have an intellectual approach
to it.
>>SMITH: Does that
have an effect
on the morphogenic field
to other people around them
and around the world
that they don't know?
Just because of once we say it,
once we experience something,
it becomes part of the
reality, of a reality.
>VEITENHEIMER: Yes, yes.
What they do is
projective reality.
So you are guilty of it--
or do it.
Everybody does.
And that is they project a
reality of their own creation.
The reality of their creation
is one of interpretation.
Now we're back to that again.
But one of the things
about reality itself is--
and I hate the words,
it is what it is--
but reality is just what it is.
It's not subject
to interpretation.
It is subject to description
but only in the language
and experiences you
have with your own self.
And so people of
vaster experience
an extension throughout
the world or the universe
through their
efforts, own efforts,
will tend to be more
accurate is what happens.
>>SMITH: Right.
No, I agree.
Have you heard of any positive
stories in your line of work
that something was
use to find something
that could have maybe--
that you can talk about, I mean.
>VEITENHEIMER: I had a
doctor one time challenged
the validity of what we
call remote viewing--
or being intuitive or
psychic is the old terms.
And, of course, the
Romans had a phrase
of never let a
soothsayer say sooth.
I can't do it in
the Latin anymore.
But basically anybody
that could tell the truth,
they wanted to get rid of.
And this is all about being able
to tell the truth of things.
But the doctor asked
me about where's
the body of the aide in DC
that got killed years ago.
And I said, well, that's
real simple she's up
on the side of a riverbank.
And he just looked at me and
goes, how do you know that?
And I go, well, you
asked the question.
How do you not know it?
And he goes, well, why
don't you go to the police?
And I go, OK, I know where
the body is-- prime suspect.
So there's a whole lot of people
out there that know things,
not just about things
like that, but they're not
about to admit to
them or let it out
because of the suspicious nature
of certain agencies and stuff.
And, of course, about six
months later they found it,
and he came back to him and
he goes, you were right.
And I go, I wasn't
trying to be right.
And that's the big difference.
In remote viewing
as it's taught,
SRI, they're trying to be right.
They're trying to
make somebody happy.
And on this side, we're not
trying to make anybody happy.
We're just trying to
tell the truth of it.
And I told him, I wasn't
trying to be right.
I was trying to be truthful.
And then another lady
called me several years ago.
And her husband had
taken her child away.
And she goes, where's my child?
This is on the phone.
I go two miles this way, 1/4
mile that way, 1/2 a mile
back to the left.
And I said when you
pull up to that house.
She called me back and
said, we just missed them.
And I said, well,
I'm sorry about that.
But that process
of knowing this,
it's the same thing in Native
American, we don't hunt.
We go where the deer is.
We go where the fish is.
It's the funniest thing in
the world, when I grew up,
like a Native American
community, people go,
oh, let's go hunting.
And we just laugh.
Why would you waste the time?
Why don't you just go--
>>SMITH: There right over there.
>VEITENHEIMER: Yeah.
So that's a instantaneously
knowing something.
And it's a skill that
can be developed.
I think people should use
it more and less television
maybe, except for this show.
So there.
>>SMITH: Yes.
No, I agree for the
education part about that.
Well, that was just an
interesting and amazing
conversation, Randy.
Thanks again for
coming on the show.
We really appreciate it.
I am your host Emery Smith.
And, remember, stay vigilant.
[THEME MUSIC]